# Learning and development

## Personal learning and development allowance

We have an annual allowance of £750 and up to 4 days per person, to be used for
a range of professional and personal development activities like workshops,
short courses or conferences. dxw pays for the event ticket, travel, and
accommodation, but you will need to cover your own costs for food, drink and
supplementary equipment.

You should discuss your training plan with your line manager, they will help you
identify potential areas for development and support you to find suitable events
or training.

You may also use the allowance to attend a non role based conference or event
focused on improving your health and wellbeing. You will receive two days off
for this, and can top up the time from your annual leave allowance.

Attending conferences and events that are not related to your role, is a taxable
benefit. As your employer, we will make the declaration, HMRC will then adjust
your tax code accordingly to collect the tax via PAYE.

### How it works

The allowance will be available to everyone once they have completed their
probation period, within the dxw financial year which runs from the start of
July to end June. It will be pro-rata for staff who work part-time. If you don’t
spend your allowance within the financial year, it cannot be carried over. We
will start afresh each year, as part of our annual budgeting cycle. Your
allowance is counted as being spent at the time of purchase rather than at time
of use; for example, if you buy a conference ticket in May for an event in July
the same year, the deduction will be made to the budget for the financial year
that May falls within.

Any events (paid, free, speaking, etc) you attend should be logged in BreatheHR
as a training request. If they do require payment, please include weblinks and
an estimate of the ticket, accommodation and travel costs (up to the maximum of
£750, though you are welcome to pay the difference for more expensive events).
This helps manage the annual budget and will give you a great view of what you
have attended in the year.

It’s ok for members of the team to go together, but we need to ensure that
training days have the lowest impact on client work, so there may be times we
need to consider whether your request is possible. Our Director of Delivery will
help with prioritisation in those circumstances.

We know that lots of training isn’t paid for, and involves things like coaching
and mentoring, learning from colleagues, being an active part of networks, and
other self-directed learning. We will encourage and support people who want to
use unbilled days for different types of professional development.

If appropriate, it’d be great if you would talk about your experiences in a blog
post or bikeshed - sharing good events and useful training will give others the
opportunity to attend.

At the end of each financial year we will review our financial position with the
intention of increasing the annual allowance.

If you have any questions, please contact the HR team.

## Support for professional qualifications

We may pay for a qualification or training that exceeds the annual £750
individual learning and development allowance, when that course is relevant and
helpful to both dxw and the individual. This is a benefit that comes into effect
once you have passed your probationary period.

We will agree to pay on the understanding that if you leave dxw, you may be
liable to repay some or all of the fees and expenses incurred.

Other than in exceptional circumstances, which will be decided at the Directors’
discretion, you will be required to repay dxw as follows:

- If you leave dxw before you attend the course, you will repay 100% of the
  costs that dxw cannot recover from the course provider.
- If you leave dxw during the course or within 9 months of completing it, you
  will repay 75% of the costs.
- If you leave dxw more than 9 months and no more than 12 months after
  completing the course, you will repay 50% of the costs.
- If you leave dxw more than 12 months after completing the course, no repayment
  will be required.

We appreciate that these percentages won’t always work given the length of the
qualification, and so the final percentage will be at the discretion of the
Directors and will be agreed with the individual prior to approval of the
course.

You will not be required to repay any costs in the following circumstances:

- Compulsory or voluntary redundancy
- Retirement due to sickness

Please complete this
[form](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gkK8L345gmmHFjqxduz5hvHyRvejMJd_rVNXQtZLrQE/edit)
and speak to your line manager or the People Manager if you would like support
from dxw to complete a professional qualification.
